hey guys J here in this live class we're
going to look at IELTS academic writing
task 1 and we're going to look at
probably the trickiest one which is when
you get a double graph which by the way
it looks like this so what are you
supposed to do if this is what you are
faced with on test day in the IELTS
academic on the left hand side you'll
see the bar graph serious injuries while
distracted driving on the right hand
side you see a pie chart fatal crashes
while distracted driving in percentages
holy moly moly what are we supposed to
do well first of all you need to read
the graph description because it'll
explain in more detail what these graphs
actually are showing it's located on top
of the graphs and it's the first
sentence in the box it says the graphs
below show the number of serious
injuries and fatalities resulting from
driving while distracted in Canada by
age group so we've got two things there
can you see them the first one is number
of serious injuries that's the bar graph
here and fatalities that's the pie the
pie chart here fine in Canada by age
group you can't see the age group but
I'll show you that in a second now what
are we supposed to do on test day well
the instruction below the task
description or the graph description
really has three parts or three
instructions to summarize the
information select and report the main
features and make comparisons so what
you really need to do is you need to use
a superstructure which does this you
need to summarize you need to describe
and you need to compare again you need
to summarize you need to describe and
you need to compare what it's going to
look like your finished product is
something like this you'll have your
little summary here which will be a
single one or two sentences okay
then you'll have your description again
you'll have one or two sentences
show you how to do these in detail in a
minute and down here you'll have your
comparison while this in fact for this
one was six sentences this is the beefy
part because there was six six points of
data or six key features that I wanted
to compare so all up what if we go I've
got six eight about ten sentences it
needs to make up at least a hundred and
fifty words I think this one's about one
hundred and fifty six okay make sure you
count it on test day just to be sure
fine so let's work out how to summarize
to summarize which is this sentence here
all you need to do is take that first
sentence from the from the box and you
need to rewrite this task description in
your own words to say the exact same
thing this is what it's called
paraphrasing paraphrasing is when you
take a sentence that you didn't write
and then you read it and you rewrite it
in your own words to say the same thing
okay
that's paraphrasing that's how you start
your IELTS academic writing task 1 you
rewrite or you paraphrase the task
description the graph description ok so
let's have a closer look at how I did
this so the sentence on top is the
original sentence and the sentence below
is my sentence so how did I paraphrase
it or rewrite it
while the original says said the graphs
below mine says the bar and pie chart ok
then I changed the verb there verb was
sure my verb is represent represent by
the way is a good verb another one could
be illustrate exhibit is not a good one
and demonstrate is not a good one
because they they mean different things
so represent or illustrate are the best
possible verbs to use the number of
serious injuries and fatalities
resulting from driving I wrote the
number of people who were either
seriously injured or killed while
driving now
when you're rewriting and you're trying
to think of different words or synonyms
to use maybe there isn't one for example
with the phrase seriously injured you
couldn't say seriously wounded for
example because the meaning is different
so you may the what you need to do there
is this let me show you so what did I do
because they wrote they wrote serious
injuries which is adjectives and then
this is a plural noun right what did I
do
I wrote seriously injured which is
different this is adverb adjective okay
so instead of changing the word I change
the word form instead of saying serious
injuries I said seriously injured and
again here I can use a synonym they said
four fatalities
I said killed people killed which is the
same meaning but it's a different word
so you again you've got two options you
can change the word but make sure it
says the exact same thing because wound
and injury are different right seriously
injured is a phrase we use in English
for car crashes for example you can't
say seriously wounded that's something
completely different
yeah same with if you're a fatality
versus a victim a fate we use the word
fatality for car crashes for example but
we use the word victim when the person
was killed by somebody else so it has a
completely different meat not completely
similar but different meaning you need
to make sure you're saying the exact
same thing either in different words or
using different word forms cool next bit
so they said resulting from driving
while distracted and I said while
driving as a result of being distracted
so I've used the same words but I've
used different word forms now here they
said in Canada by age group and I said
in Canada by age group why because
there's really no
the way to say this the prepositions are
the same Canada's the same age group
perhaps I could have said age bracket or
something like that fine
so what I want you to do now is pause
the video one minute
rewrite this sentence in your own words
to say the exact same thing please write
feel free to write your sentence into
the comments below let me just remind
you here oh cool all right now we're
gonna move on to the description because
you need to describe so here's mine
I said the number of serious injuries
was highest among the middle ages and
lowest at the extremities the 20 to 34
year old age group accounted for just
over half of all deaths so what you need
to do is describe main trends or or or
key features describe main trends or key
features in fact a trend has to do with
time now our one didn't give us any time
so in fact we're going to describe key
features but if your x-axis has time you
can describe you know the increase over
time and the decrease whatever it is so
do this in two sentences and don't
compare because that comes next so when
I look at these I need to describe again
I'm gonna say key features not main
trends fine I'm gonna describe the key
feature so let's just look at the bar
graph what's a key feature here what's a
key feat what sticks out in your mind
the most when you look at the bar graph
for me it's this age group here 25 to 34
year-olds they accounted for the highest
number of serious injuries right and
what also sticks out in my mind is that
the 65 year olds and the and the
youngest people accounted for the lowest
number of serious injuries so I'm going
to write a sentence that says something
like 25 to 34 year olds accounted for
the highest number of serious injuries
while the young people and the oldest
people accounted for the lowest number
that's my sentence I'm not comparing I'm
just describing the key features of this
one here please go ahead and write your
single sentence whoopsy sorry write your
single sentence and describe key
features of this bar graph here in one
minute's cool now just next to that
sentence because we're still in the
description we now want to describe the
pie chart so forget the bar graph let's
look at the pie chart now again what
sticks out in your mind what's the
what's the most interesting feature what
are the key features here well for me I
saw that the big green bit here which is
the 20 to 24 year-olds and the yellow
bit in fact that makes up over 50
percent that makes up in fact 51 percent
of all fatalities so what I'm going to
do here in one sentence is describe I'm
going to say the 20 to 34 year-olds I'm
going to collapse these two age
categories into one accounted for 51% so
again I'm gonna read your mind the
number of this is the this is the bar
chart the number of serious injuries was
highest among the middle ages and lowest
at the extremities the 20 to 34 year old
age group accounted for just over half
of all deaths so please go ahead in one
sentence describe the key features of
this pie chart here
cool
all right no problem now we're up to the
hardest bit here this is where we need
to compare this is where mm this is
where you need to write sentences that
have sort of they're called compound
sentences when we join two sentences
together because you're going to
describe something from the bar graph
and you're going to compare it to
something from the pie chart in a single
sentence so we're going to have subject
verb object then we're gonna use a
coordinator a conjunction a connecting
word a linking word and we're gonna have
subject verb object related to the pie
chart this is where you really need to
use your language skills the other thing
here is you need to start using some
data so first step is to choose logical
categories I'll talk you through that in
a second then compare them and you need
to include numerical information that
includes the numbers the percentages
maybe it'll be dollar signs maybe it
will be kilograms so on test day in the
third section here the comparison you
use the data cool right let's have a
look at here first question you need to
ask yourself is what are you going to
compare which categories will you
compare because you have a few options
and if you make the wrong decision well
that's no good because maybe you decide
you're gonna compare 15 and 9 to 19 year
olds with with 20 to 24 year olds well
that would be a stupid thing to do
because it's not a logical comparison
why would you do that or maybe you're
going to compare this one here with I
don't know this one here well that's
arbitrary it's not a logical comparison
because you're comparing 20 to 24 year
old injuries with with what's this one
50 to 64 year old fatalities no the
comparisons you're going to make are
this you're going to compare 15 19 year
olds seriously injured with those who
were fatally were killed you're going to
compare the 20 to 24 year olds
you're going to compare the 25 to 34
year olds you're going to compare the
orange to the orange you're going to
compare the red to the red you're going
to compare the blue to the blue right
but then we need to go one step further
because fine we've chosen the categories
we're going to use to compare but is
that going to be a good structure
there's a second step here we need to
think about how we're going to order
this because we also we want to choose
logical categories but we also want a
logical order so let me show you what I
was thinking here first thing is I'm
gonna start with the largest and go to
the smallest because that's often a
logical way to do things in which case
I'm going to compare this one I'm going
to start here with this one then I'm
gonna do the green one with the green
one why because it looks to me like the
second largest or around the they're
pretty similar but that looks logical to
me then I'm gonna do orange with orange
because that looks like the number third
largest here and and third largest here
so close to maybe its second and third
but that's fine next I'm gonna do the
red one next I'm going to do the light
blue one the fifteen to nineteen year
olds and finally my sixth
comparison is going to be these sixty
five-plus people here so this is what my
paragraph will look like and let me show
you it so I wrote this compare it sorry
that's a typographical error it should
say comparing the data you need to be
careful comparing the data there were
thirty thousand four hundred and thirty
seven seriously injured
twenty-five to thirty four year olds
here's my next subject verb object and
the same group because I'm comparing the
same group made up nineteen percent of
the fatalities fine next sentence 22 24
year olds made up a smaller number of
serious injuries but accounted for the
highest number of deaths at 32 percent
now I move on to the 35 to 44 year olds
and I said just over 21
thousand thirty five to forty four
year-olds were seriously injured while
driving and this group made up 18% of
all fatal crashes you can see how I'm
comparing the age groups from seriously
injured to fatalities I said seventeen
thousand eight hundred and seventy four
fifty five to sixty four year olds were
injured and this age bracket suffered
fifteen percent of the fatalities those
aged 65 and older were both the least
likely to be seriously injured and
killed at fifteen thousand seven hundred
and twenty eight and eight percent
respectively then my final sentence was
actually a little bit different to what
I told you
fifteen to nineteen year olds followed a
similar pattern with slightly higher
serious injuries and eight percent
fatalities cool that's tricky that's
tricky here's what I want you to do
broken down I want you to pause the
video I want you to write each of these
sentence into the comments below because
there's only one way to learn how to do
this and that's to actually do it I want
to see your six compound sentences I'll
give you pause the video give yourself
about six to ten minutes
all right hopefully you did that because
just for your interest this is not
theory this is an applied science you
need to do it to learn it because on
test day if you've done it we'll make it
a hell of a lot easier once you've burnt
those pathways into your brain when you
sit there on test day ah I remember e to
language and J taught me how to do this
what what right so let's recap what
we've learned well you need to do three
things you need to summarize you need to
describe key features and you need to
compare data right so this is what it's
going to look like on test day just to
repeat here's your summary you did this
from the graph description you rewrote
the graph description in your own words
then you described key features or main
trends depending on what you get on test
day and here is where you do the
comparison first you have to select
logical categories then you have to
think about how you will order them then
you go ahead and you use look at all
this data sorry look at all these data
data is plural look at all these data
here percentage signs numbers and you'll
notice here there's no numbers apart
from the age group you can use the x
axis in the description cool guys hey if
you need any help with your IELTS if you
want some feedback on your writing some
tutorials from teachers like me if you
need access to good practice materials
in fact if you just want to really
streamline course you don't have to
waste your time looking around YouTube
at junk
check out this website here make
yourself a free account have a look
around and if you're feeling adventurous
you may want to upgrade and get the
benefits of a paid package do check out
e to language comm thanks for watching
my name is J and hope that was helpful